TOP 10 CHALLENGES IN CRYPTOGRAPHY FOR BIG DATA. How is cryptography for Big Data different? BIG: scale up existing solutions for volume, variety and velocity, retarget to Big Data infrastructural shift. DATA: balance privacy and utility, enable analytics and governance on encrypted data, reconcile authentication and anonymity. Key Points: Secure Dissemination - Differential Privacy, Policy-based Encryption, Searching/Filtering Encrypted Data, Secure Outsourcing of Computation, Proof of Data Storage. Differential Privacy. Roughly speaking: Ensures that almost no risk is incurred by joining a statistical database, Ensures that the removal or addition of an item does not significantly alter the outcome of any analysis. Traditionally access control has been enforced by systems – Operating Systems, Virtual Machines: Restrict access to data, based on access policy, Data is still in plaintext, Systems can be hacked, Security of the same data in transit is a separate concern. What if we protect the data itself in a cryptographic shell depending on the access policy? Decryption only possible by entities allowed by the policy. Keys can be hacked! – but much smaller attack surface. Encrypted data can be moved around, as well as kept at rest – uniform handling. Searching and Filtering Encrypted Data. Suppose you have a system to receive emails encrypted under your public key. However, you do not want to receive spam mails. With plain public key encryption, there is no way to distinguish a legitimate email ciphertext from a spam ciphertext! However, with ongoing research you will be able do the following. Secure Outsourcing of Computation. Suppose you want to send all your sensitive data to the cloud: photos, medical records, financial records. You could send everything encrypted. But wouldn’t be much use if you wanted the cloud to perform some computations on them. What if you wanted to see how much you spent on movies last month? Solution: Fully Homomorphic Encryption. Cloud can perform any computation on the underlying plaintext, all the while the results are encrypted! Cloud has no clue about the plaintext or the results. Why should we do crypto research? Cryptography is an enabler. There is a realization across the industry that cryptographic technologies are imperative for cloud and big data. Mathematical assurance of trust gives people more incentive to migrate data and computation to cloud. Significant opportunities to explore. Mere anonymization is not privacy. Systematic and mathematical considerations need to applied when responding to queries on personal data. Sophisticated techniques are in research stage or have limited deployments, which enable rich transformations and management of encrypted data.