Big Data, Big Concerns, and What the  White House Wants to Do about It. Big data tools offer astonishing and powerful opportunities to unlock previously inaccessible insights from new  and existing data sets. Large amounts of data are being processed through new techniques and technologies,  dissecting the digital footprints individuals leave behind, and revealing a surprising number of personal details.  As a result, big data analytics have the potential to eclipse longstanding civil rights protections in how personal  information is used in housing, credit, employment, health, education, and the marketplace.  The White House Big Data Report, published on May 1, 2014, suggests structures and safeguards to avoid  negative or harmful consequences for individuals. The general theme of the Report and its recommendations  center on finding responsible uses of big data for the benefit of individuals, respecting privacy and intimacy, and  setting up better structures, disclosures or technologies to allow for these new uses. The Report identifies five  areas of focus:  protecting privacy, preventing discrimination, ensuring responsible use of information by  government agencies, harnessing data as a public resource, and using big data to enhance learning  opportunities. The Report concludes with policy recommendations, including, advancing the Consumer Privacy  Bill of Rights; passing national data breach legislation; amending the Electronic Communications Privacy Act;  expanding technical expertise to stop discrimination; extending privacy protections to non-U.S. persons; and  ensuring that data collected on students in school are used for educational purposes. Many of the proposed initiatives would be translated into new laws and regulations, which are likely to create  obstacles and compliance requirements for businesses. These recommendations are likely to affect the way in  which companies operate, how and why they collect data, and what uses they make of it. With the recent revelations on the extensive use of personal information by U.S. and foreign government  agencies, it is not surprising that the Report would recommend clarifying law enforcement’s powers and role.  For example, the Report suggests that government use of lawfully acquired commercial data should be  evaluated to ensure consistency with the country’s values. Federal agencies should implement best practices for  institutional protocols and mechanisms to ensure the controlled use and secure storage of data. Law  enforcement use of predictive analytics should receive careful policy review. Federal agencies with expertise in  privacy and data practices should provide technical assistance to state, local, and other federal law enforcement  agencies seeking to deploy big data techniques. There is no doubt that the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, almost 30 years old, is out of sync with the  reality of today’s cloud services, texting, social media and other means that did not exist or were in their infancy  in 1986. Consistent with the numerous initiatives already in progress, the Report recommends amending the  ECPA to provide the same protection for online, digital content as that which is afforded in the physical world. The Report recommends the adoption of a national data privacy law that would incorporate the principles laid  out in the White House Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights. The Department of Commerce would be tasked with drafting legislative text implementing the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights for submission by the President to  Congress. The traditional concepts of notice and consent, which have been a key requirement in all data protection  regimes, may no longer be sufficient to protect personal privacy. The Report recognizes that notice and consent  would be incompatible with the way big data functions, because it would block new, non-obvious, unexpectedly  powerful uses of data. Thus, new criteria for access to and processing of data would have to be developed. Tracking technologies have been the subject of numerous government and private initiatives in the U.S. at the  State and Federal level, and internationally, as well. Numerous obstacles are delaying implementation of a do  not track framework. Concurrently, companies are lobbying to preserve their ability to analyze usage data in  order to understand their market. The Report recommends strengthening “do not track” tools, technologies,  and mechanisms to address the growing array of technologies available for recording individual actions,  behavior, and location data across a range of services and devices. Data brokers have been the subject of intense scrutiny in the past few years, including several initiatives by the  Federal Trade Commission, alleging violation of the U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act. The Report encourages the  data broker industry to build a portal where data brokers would disclose their data practices and provide  methods for consumers to better control the collection and use of their information and to opt-out of certain  marketing uses. The Report’s suggestions might help sanitize or curb certain aggressive practices. More than ten years after California passed the first Security Breach Disclosure Law, the Federal legislators have  not been able to pass a law that would provide a uniform approach nationwide. As a result, companies have to  deal with 47 different state laws. The Report supports passing a national data breach law that would impose  reasonable time periods for notification, minimize interference with law enforcement investigations, and  potentially prioritize notification about large, damaging incidents over less significant incidents. After having been the target of much criticism for its practices and its lack of “adequate protection,” the United  States is now stepping up its efforts to communicate with other worldwide powers and attempt to establish, and  participate in, bridges between the different privacy and data protection regimes, such as through its initiatives  as part of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).  The Report encourages the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce to engage with the European Union, APEC,  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and other stakeholders, to evaluate how  existing and proposed policy frameworks address big data. It recommends strengthening the U.S.-European Union Safe Harbor Framework and encourages more countries and companies to join the APEC Cross Border  Privacy Rules system. It also promotes collaboration on data flows between the United States, Europe, and Asia  through efforts to align Europe's system of Binding Corporate Rules and the APEC CBPR system. Big data may create tools or information that may lead to discrimination. The Report recommends that civil  rights and consumer protection agencies expand their technical expertise and identify practices and outcomes  that may have a discriminatory impact on protected classes, and develop a plan for investigating and resolving  violations of law. Cloud computing and other technologies allow U.S. servers to collect, store and transmit data generated by nonU.S. persons and intended to be used outside the United States. The Report recommends that the 1974 Privacy  Act be applied to non-U.S. persons where practicable, or that alternative privacy policies that provide  appropriate and meaningful protection be applied to personal information regardless of a person’s nationality. Big data has the potential for numerous positive developments, such as in the health or the education area.  However, big data analytics and technologies - especially when combined with the new means of collecting  personal information such as sensors, wearable technologies, smart grid, or Internet of things devices - create  the potential for new uses of data. Some of these uses may be invasive, and erode privacy rights. Structures are  needed to help preserve intimacy, and protect personal lives. The White House Big Data Report is an important  step in the right direction but it cannot remain just a report. The next steps will be crucial. The suggestions in the  Report need to be taken to the next steps, analyzed further, and distilled into practical, pragmatic steps, to help  establish a workable balance between the different players, and the different goals.